The Joe Rogan experience. Yeah.
By the way, Joe,
this is an interesting thing I want to talk to mentioned to you too. Cause um,
you brought up this point where like, I like living my life.
I live a great life. Why wouldn't you want to do that again? Because,
and I don't know, I didn't sort of
challenge it a little because you were saying in retro back to.
Helio dealio said, why would you want to do over? Because the whole.
Buddhist and Hindu thing is that I don't want to take birth again. Yeah.
And since we were talking about these higher planets and higher beings,
they say that that planet like earth and they said,
there's other ones like this as well.
There is some pleasure and some pain there's people who live in a penthouse
and these people are sleeping on the streets or you can be on the hundredth
whatever floor it was at the world trade center and be a CEO.
And then a plane can be wrapped, you know, two floors underneath you.
You can go from pleasure and pain,
the most excruciating plane and the most incredible,
highest of pleasure in a moment. So in this sort, I mean,
we've got plenty places that are like places in the world.
They're like the rape capital of the world.
And then you've got places that are sort of like, you know,
go to Switzerland or Norway where the currency is strong and the people are
beautiful. And the everything you see is like, it's from like a postcard.
So we have like great mounts of pain and great amounts of pleasure on this
planet
in such a condition, you could start to question like, why am I here?
What is life about? It gives you a window to even ask those questions.
Now, if there's just so much pleasure in your life,
they say that higher beings don't have the impetus to evolve
because there's so much pleasure, higher being.
Higher being. So according to the Vedas, there's higher questions.
There's higher, higher planets. And I don't want to say Ganash,
but there's a higher planets with higher beings who just living a high life and
therefore the impetus to get out of Samsara, you know, this word,
repeated birth and death. There is no impetus to get out.
Sometimes people are suffering so much.
There's no impetus to even see a spiritual light.
People are suffering tremendously, maybe go to prison or they get to,
they get caught up in more degraded activity.
Sometimes people will have so much. So I'm like saying in your life,
you have so much good karma, so to speak,
but because you're still embodied,
there'll always be sort of like a pinprick because that's part of having a body.
Right. But my point was,
this journey is enjoyable and that I, um, for you, you.
Got good. Got good karma. Is that all it is?
Cause I've had bad moments. I mean, is.
Is it all just [inaudible].
It is choices. Was it Karma's like the direction.
Did you choose to push forward in the understanding of push and pull the
understanding of the discipline and the work and then the kindness and the
generosity and that all these things are connected together.
And then also the expression,
the ability to express yourself through podcasts or through stand up comedy,
but all these things are enjoyable and that there's a pursuit in that.
And that the real benefit of it is that other people get entertainment out of
it. And that.
No, this is your choice. Your choice is perpetuated obviously,
but there's other people who've done.
Podcasts. Who've done comedy and they're just not successful at it.
Yeah. But it's a puzzle though. It's like,
it's like saying other people sing songs, but people don't play them back.
There were bands before green day, like the Buzzcocks from the seventies who.
Who my opinion was better than green day,
but they just weren't at the right time historically or.
Right. Publicists. Yeah. Look, there's always.
Going to be that. But my point is like, you don't have to be famous to be happy.
It's just, life is interesting. Life is enjoyable.
Sometimes it's hard and sometimes it's painful.
Sometimes it's emotionally devastating for sure. But the idea,
if you are alive and enjoying life,
the idea of doing it forever is terrifying to people.
That was what my point was like,
why is it terrifying if it's not terrifying to do it now?
Why is the eternal existence so disturbing?
Right.
Unless they have had a traumatic life.
Yeah. A lot of people have, yes. A lot of people. Yes. A lot of people have.
I don't know. My.
Life was so traumatic. I think I got some, let's leave them out that.
Equation.
And let's just talk about people who have not had a traumatic life who have a
fair look if you're in America and you're not sick and you have
friends you're doing infinitely better than most people on planet. Sure.
You know, that's just,
we're really fortunate in terms of like the environments that we exist in.
If you're not being abused and you have a job and you have, uh,
hobbies and things to do, God, are you lucky?
You could be born in Afghanistan. You could be living in the Congo,
suffering from a host of different pathogens and bacteria and viruses.
And so.
But your thing is, according to that person, was it Helio made up that? Well,
I don't think he made.
It up. I think Helio obviously was a great warrior as well as a great
jujitsu teacher,
but he had this philosophy on existence and that you
had to live your life and do the right things always.
And if you didn't, you would come back again and do it all over again.
Well, the Vedic system is, is similar, but it's not the exact,
you don't get born as Joe Rogan, again, living in a parallel life and like, oh,
I didn't take out the garbage that day.
I should have taken out the garbage it more be like,
according to your desires and your activities and your thoughts and the people
you associate with you moved up, um,
psychically, you got a little more degraded. W w you know,
either upgrade or degrade, basically it was SIM.
Similar. Do think of yourself like that. Do you think,
like when you think of yourself and you're,
you're fortunate in the interesting life you've carved out,
do you feel like your past life has had some sort of an impact on who you are
right now?
For sure. For sure. For sure. Really? Why are you so sure.
Um, well, it's just sort of like my, uh,
worldview is that there's not a randomness,
that everything is building upon something in the same way I'm building upon
tomorrow,
today building on next week by Y act this week.
And it could take a bigger and bigger and bigger. So that, in that sense,
it makes sense. But there's a, there is a little bit more of a leap of faith.
Like,
and I'm building up to a climax where we'll take another body,
or I'm coming from a place where I have some talents. You know,
we call them your God given gifts or your, my, my, you know,
my daughter is a gifted art are artists,
but the idea is that it's been a practice that we've been practicing and
bringing with us for lifetimes,
and both are both good and bad. And this is.
A belief system that you just sort of adopt because there's not really any
evidence.
It it's, it's not that I've adopted it. It's, it's, that's the,
that's how the yogis view. Right. Karma and yeah. And.
I understand, but you taking this in yourself.
Take it myself because I see it in this lifetime. Now, like I said,
that, I don't know, there's, there's blind faith,
and then there's reasonable faith. So my reasonable faith wise in this lifetime,
I've witnessed my body change.
I witnessed my mind changed my intelligence change.
I've witnessed myself cultivate desires that heal me, make me stronger,
make me lighter, make me more connected.
I've witnessed myself choose bad choices, things that are addictive,
things that are, um, defiling my consciousness or my body or my health.
So in this life the time I know I ha I can steer my karma.
And at the same time, there's certain things that are out of my hands.
Like you and me are on a flight to San Diego. Um,
and the planes going to San Diego. What I, what we do on that plane,
the plane journey is our karma. What we do on that plane, that's our freewill.
So that's the difference between free will and destiny. There is,
there is a difference of the two,
just because there is karma doesn't mean you're bound to it. You can move it.
But the yoga system is to bring us to this.
I'm trying to think, keep it simple through this. It's called sativa,
or it's a state of self control, a peace balance.
So all the things of the whole culture is based to keep the mind peaceful.
And from when the mind is peaceful,
I act less on impetus and more from a higher chuckers or higher
thoughts or higher intelligence. Um, for example,
if I slap a Panther, Panther is going to bite me. Why? Because Panther's bite.
When you slap him. If I slap Joe, you could act from a different place,
Hey man, what's up. Or you can be like immediately.
And sometimes I feel that also, I feel like I'm acting from a lower place.
I'm angry. I'm going to kick back. Right. Right. And sometimes I feel like,
I mean, do this with parenting. Sometimes I get angry at my child. I said,
don't you understand? He's just trying to talk to you.
He's just trying to share how he experiences.
And I have to pull myself back and let go of any way I was parented and try to
like, um, act from a higher place. So there's always an,
they say in the human species,
there's always this chance to either upgrade your activities or degrade your
activities. And they, and they, and they snowball off of each other,
like every good choice helps you make a better choice. You know, we,
we said that with diet, with exercise, um, how do we get,
talk about that, Joe?
Is this we're talking about just massive detours that we're taking? No, no, no.
It's.
We're getting to places.
We were talking about your belief that your karma is
connected to what you've done in the past life.
Sure. So that's a, that's a bigger leap of faith. And you say,
I see it in this life.
You see it in other people as well. So when you see people,
you look at their life and you think this person where they are right now
is directly connected to what they've done in the past life.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's an interesting philosophy. It's an interesting thing.
Interesting lens. And you know, it's an honor, you know, what's nice about it.
Even in Western psychiatry,
if I go and complain about my husband or my wife,
a good psychiatrist will go, well, what's your responsibility in this?
Is it all your wife? Or is it you, they take you back.
And when you really study this Vedic thought,
you realize that there is no more blaming anybody. Yeah.
I've just got what I've got for whatever reason now,
what am I going to do with that? What am I going to do today? It's also,
what am I going to do tomorrow? Why the,
why me never happens because I've got what I got.
I probably did something and people don't like to hear that,
but we don't know our backstory. And
to be truthful, I have a blind side,
a blind spot when it comes to anything atrocious I've done in this life.
I forget all the times I've hurt. People, broke people's parts. You know,
it was rude or cruel or a thought was. So I got to get some karma too,
in this life, what to speak of a previous life, where I'm oblivious to. Right?
And if I just want to blame the circumstance,
here's your option. You can either be free from that.
Be acceptance and accept that there's benevolent forces that are trying to teach
us lessons to get out of the birth and death.
Or you can just be bitter at the world. Why me unfair. So this idea.
Of benevolent forces that are trying teach us,
do you feel that this spiritual quest
is almost like a divine puzzle,
that human beings are proposed and that you're,
you are given this infinite series of options.
And in choosing the right way of thinking and behaving,
you can carve out the righteous path as best you can, you will make mistakes,
but that there's,
there's a spiritual undertaking that is a part of
operating this puzzle correctly.
And that this is what all these teachings are about. And that's trying to,
we're all trying to relay what we've learned and what,
what we've experienced personally.
And we're trying to relay it to other people so that they can relate.
And so that they can also make choices that will allow them to more
refined their approach to life, to achieve better spiritual balance.
Yeah.
It's well said. I th th there's there's, you know,
the yogis called me yamas and niyamas sorta like, say it again,
yamas and niyamas diplomas, yamas, yamas,
and niyamas things you do and things you don't do. Okay.
And it's the equivalent of like a sort of guardrails on a road,
right? You drive a little bit off too far, you scratch your car, right.
There's the guard rail. But if it wasn't there it'd be complete tragedy.
So there's sort of like things that we pull in, um, with our, uh, sexuality,
with our thoughts, with our words, it's,
it's how to use the vehicle in this lifetime.
So the vehicle being the body, right. What we do, what we don't do, what we,
don't, what we do, you know, what to eat, what to, what to think, what to speak,
how to speak, how to relate to people, how to relate to juniors,
how to relate to seniors. So the whole beta culture is carved out like this,
that in itself is not spiritual. It just assists you in driving a car.
I still got to go north. And so once I can take care of how to like,
take care of this machine and keep it on the road,
then I've reached out for connection. Yeah. And that's the spiritual,
so there's Dharma,
but then there's Dharma that that's supposed to get us connected with genuine.
Yoga to Dharma. What is that? The definition rather of Dharma again, I mean.
Sort of like a rent right? Living.
It's not some people confuse it with while doing what you're born to do,
because I don't think it's just doing what you're good at,
because you could be good at leadership and be a dictator. And, and, and,
and, and, and you're.
A great leader. Everyone's going to do what you do,
but Hitler was a great leader, great leader.
Great leader is probably going to chart, but then you also have great,
great leaders, like a Christ who was like a great leader. Right. Also.
So it's not just leadership,
it's leading person towards connection so that your activity has a
benevolent effect on everyone in touches. That's Dharma, that's,
that's Dharma and its true sense. And that's the Dharma of your body.
Like your Dharma is you entertain. Um, you're you could say a warrior.
You could all say you have also Dom as a father. So that's it.
Those are all type of like, you're carved out for that. You know,
if you weren't doing that, you'd always feel like a little lack in your life,
but then there's like a nitty Dharma or what you and the nitty Dharma is
actually the Dharma of the soul. And that's why in the Vedic system,
it's not like you're trying to convert somebody to be
of your religion. It's not like a home run to say, okay,
I got a Christian to become a Hindu. That's not what it is.
The idea is that everybody's a spirit soul. You can change.
It's not about joining the same church or the same.
Uh Ostrom it's like a soul is a soul. It's a truth. Truth is truth. There's no,
no, no. One's got a monopoly on truth.
There's no such thing as a it's like math,
it's that Jewish math or Hindu math or Christian it's like math is math, right?
So we want to apply truth to the life, to the vehicle.
And that's going to give direction to the vehicle.
That's going to be the food for the soul.
And that's what the genuine meaning of yoga people say,
it's a balanced the mind.
It's not the ballot it's to connect the atmo or the soul with divinity to,
but with Bhagavan that's the real yoga.
And that's when the yoga means to come together. But in the original text,
in the original ancient teachings of UConn, Rashad's Bhagavad, Gita,
it's all about is here. I am lost in this crazy plan.
I'm driving my car everywhere, how to keep it on the road and where do I go?
And that's, that's, that's the classical concept of what yoga is.
How do we keep it on the road? And where do I go?
I liked that way of looking at it.